# Mobility patterns/events in Switzerland with Twitter

### Abstract
The increasing availability of geolocated data in social media opened new ventures in the exploration and understanding of spatio-temporal movements patterns and possibilities to explain such irregularities in the mobility data. Twitter offers both individual and crowd-based geotagged data at different levels of precision. Analyzing and detecting internal and external mobility patterns along with social activities that explain the flows across different countries has gained an increasing level of interest lately especially with the advert of new sources of collecting data. City management and management of urban events such as city festivals and concerts can greatly benefit from studying the irregular crowd movement. 
The main objective of this project is to analyze geolocated tweets to discover medium-term and short-term trends in spatio-temporal flows of young generation inside Switzerland. We aim to build a system that not only analyzes how those patterns change over time, and location but most importantly how the emotional experience associated with those flows is impacted. In order to better understand the logic behind the change in mobility patterns and to be able to justify and predict high-frequency patterns, we plan to come up with a fine grained event detection model. Our aim is to predict  what kind of emotions are experienced by events which are triggered by specific paths in Switzerland.

### Data Description
Geotagged tweets in the Swiss area collected from Twitter. Census data. origin and destination surveys from authorities . Data related to transportation such as (SBB). 

### Feasibility and Risks
One of the limitations that we are currently thinking of is the possibility that the geotagged tweets are generated by a small minority of the population, which might lead to a bias in any inference that we will make using this data (representation issues). This will be clear once we get our hands dirty and start looking into the data.

### Deliverables
* Models:
  - Prediction of user-based mobility patterns change in the future.
  - Event Detection Model which finds events related to certain flow patterns.
  - Lexicon Based Fine-Grained Emotion Classification of Events
* Tool: a visualization/animation interface to track the migration patterns across time and space labelled with their events
* Final Report
* Presentation

### Timeplan
| Weeks | Tasks | Responsible Team Members | Deliverables |
| ----- | ----- | ------------------------ | ------------ |
| 24/10 - 30/10 | <ul><li>Do some brainstorming to help define the concepts related to the topic</li><li>Initial literature review</li></ul> | All members |  | 
| 31/10 - 06/11 | <ul><li>More research on the topic</li><li>Design the research question and refine its focus</li><li>Write the project proposal</li></ul> | All members | Project proposal Submitted 6 November at 11:59 pm  | 
| 07/11 - 13/11 | <ul> <li> Data Gathering </li> <li> Data Cleaning and exploration </li> </ul> |  |  |
| 14/11 - 20/11 | Part I: Reconstructing mobility flows of the users: <ul><li>Data Pre-processing and Wrangling </li><li>Data Visualization and Analysis</li></ul> |  |  |
| 21/11 - 27/11 | Application of Machine Learning Algorithms on the data and computation of correlations|  |  |
| 28/11 - 04/12 | Fine Tuning ML models and Evaluation of Results |  |  |
| 05/12 - 11/12 | Results Reporting and Visualization |  |  |
| 12/12 - 18/12 | Part II: Detection of Events (date, location, positive or negative sentiment) <ul> <li> Data Pre-processing and Wrangling </li> <li> Data Visualization and Analysis </li> </ul> |  | Checkpoint Mid December (TBD)|
| 19/12 - 25/12 | Application of Machine Learning Algorithms on the data and computation of correlations |  |  |
| 09/01 - 15/01 | Fine Tuning ML models and Evaluation of Results |  |  |
| 16/01 - 22/01 | Results Reporting and Visualization |   |   |
| 23/01 - 29/01 | Final Preparation of the report and the symposium |  | Mini-Symposium (Group Poster/ Report)  End of January (TBD)
 
                      


